### TDT4250 - Advanced Software Design
William Andersson & Anniken Syvertsen

# Repo Structure
```
TDT4250-advanced-software
│   README.md
│   ... | autogenerated files from eclipse
└───META-INF/
|   |   MANIFEST.MF
|
└───src/sp/
│   │   SpFactory.java
│   │   SpPackage.java
|   |   ... | All other interfaces
|
│   └───examples/ | For different test files, like checking if our derived features were working as intended. Eyeball testing
│   |
│   └───impl/ | Contains implementation classes
|   |
│   └───util/ | Contains utility classes, like manually written validation
└───model/
    │   InstanceTest.xmi | Our main instance, currently showing the full Course of Study for a 2020 cohort of Software, MSIT
    │   sp.ecore | StudyPlan model
    │   sp.genmodel | Studyplan genmodel

```

# Content
## Classes
### Course of Study
In the Studyplan model there is a class called Course of Study. This is defined as "the courses of which an education is formed by". The class is used both for programmes and specializations (continuation). You can think of a program as a sequence of semesters ending in a set of possible continuations, and the continuations are just like the programme itself, they also contain semesters and end in a set of possible continuations.

### Study Cohort
A study cohort (Norwegian: "kull") lets you set the start year of the course of study. 

### Semester
A semester has a semestercode and a refrence to the study cohort so that a semester will contain given classes for the studycohort that belongs to the course of study, so that each semester instance will be unique. (E.g. H2020 for MSIT with study cohort 2020 will be a different semester than H2020 for MSIT with study cohort 2019, since the courses are different for the first and the third semester of MSIT)

### Course
A course has credits and coursecode and also uses derived features to extract the code and the name of the course. 

### Studyplan
The Studyplan is the top class of the model. 

## Derived Features
### Course => course name and course code
All courses are written in the format: "TDT4250 - Advanced Software Engineering". To get access to both the course code and the course name we have made derived features that extract the course name and the course code.

### Semester code => season and year
When creating a semester you write "H2020", and we have used derived features to extract what season and what year it is based on the semester code.

## Constraints
### OCL
We implemented two OCL constraints to check that there is at least 4 and at most 10 semesters in a course of study 

### Manually written
We implemented two manually written constraints that checks that a semester offers at least 30 course credits through electives and mandatory courses. Additionally there may be no more than 30 compulsory course credits. 

## Opposites
- StudyCohort & Semester
- Course of Study & StudyCohort
- Course of Study & Specialization (Class: CourseOfStudy)
- Studyplan & Course of Study

## Containments
- CourseOfStudy is contained by StudyPlan: a course of Study (e.g. MSIT) can only belong to one studyplan
- StudyCohort is contained by CourseOfStudy: a study cohort can only belong to one course of study
- Semester is contained by StudyCohort: a semester can only belong to one study chohort. That way you can say that a course in a semester is mandatory. If the semester was not contained by a StudyCohort, it would be difficult to say that a course was mandatory since the semester could be the same for several cohorts.
- Course is contained by StudyPlan: the courses can belong 

## Misc.
Lanugage for instances is Norwegian for now. E.g. seasons will be returned as "Høst" and "Vår".

**Datatypes**

We have created an enum for credits called CreditKind that is used in the Course class to assign a given number of credits for a course.

## Assumptions
- For this assignment we have assumed that you can only choose from a Bachelor, Integrated Masters, and a Masters, and therefore the minimum semesters are 4 (Masters) and the maximum semesters are 10 (Integrated Masters)
- For this assignment we have assumed that the courses are either compulsory or elective, no M2A, M1A, K-courses, etc. 

